hey it's me Destin welcome back to
smarter every day I did a video and I
put mr. John the butterfly farmer and
you had a bunch of questions about
butterfly farming so we're gonna do a
video about butterfly farming is okay
with you that's good with me so I'm
going to tell you what this paper is at
the end of the video but this is pretty
important for my family but for now
let's go learn about how butterflies are
made or how they yeah let's do that
okay first step in the life cycle of a
butterfly is butterfly eggs all right
where do we go let's go see if we can
find some in our flight house alright
John so you have a huge butterfly house
here how do you know where the
caterpillars are going to be I bring in
a certain host plant I know that the
spicebush Swallowtail we'll only lay
eggs on a few plants and one of them is
a sassafras tree so they have favorite
favorite plants yep called called their
host plant but there's a look at I mean
all these plants right here have flowers
and stuff they will not lay an egg on
anything but this man that's amazing so
you put one little sapling in here and
and you get everything you need yep and
I just wanted this one has about what I
want on it I just take this pot out and
I bring another one in oh wait what
what's happening here she's about to lay
an egg
no way so she's laying an egg on the
bottom side yep so can we see that egg
that she just laid that and probably
several others yeah so she just laid
that egg
she laid one of these two right here
that's and I caught it on film and here
she comes again no way come on girl if
you notice she comes up to the plant
downwind BAM I got at that time all
right she did not lay does that is it
normal I just don't know don't look at
them she mess that up
I should probably listen to the
butterfly farmer okay and I assume at
this point they hatched right yes that's
right next step they'll be hatching and
I'm looking back let's go over next door
man those are little these guys are
actually this is not their smallest it's
actually pot they're probably already in
there second second in stare second what
in stare in stare or basically step the
process between the molting most
Lepidoptera molt between four and five
times turn I think there's a caterpillar
on your but there is you said don't warn
you we can't stay oh the B word I'm
sorry go catch more butterflies I'm
sorry I won't say that again so yeah
this is test vestry but to sleep on it
huh and the caterpillar oh man so it
looks like she had a huge head but he
doesn't does he
right yeah his actual hitch is right
down there on the very end is he special
it like a snake exactly which no bird
likes
his first six legs there are actually
his permit laces are as only true legs
so what you're saying is those legs will
make it through metamorphosis right as
an insect Keith only really has six legs
so let's also see if we can catch a
caterpillar as its switching to its pupa
what do you mean switching to its pupa
the caterpillar will actually split its
skin the same way this molt and actually
come out of the out of the caterpillar
as a pupa really it doesn't build one no
that's actually a common misconception
are you telling me a caterpillar just
sits in one spot and turns into a pupa I
can tell you whatever you want so show
me oh yeah if you look look down you sir
should be a silk basically a tether line
that s just running right across his
back oh I see it there silk is quite a
bit like spider silk it's extremely
strong for its size hey what am I seeing
there's something moving inside the skin
I think you're actually about to get to
watch him split split and turn into a
pupa what mm-hmm
this should be this should be good the
caterpillar skin is splitting and the
pupa is actually going to wriggle right
out of the caterpillar skin I cannot
believe we're catching this
so the only thing holding him to the net
is that one little silk thread that you
showed me earlier that one little
security line what happens if it breaks
it doesn't so he's done with his skin
right yep and he actually he jumped off
reattached and now he's gonna wig around
how that skin drops down below on and
see there he just ejected he got he got
loose and now he's gonna wiggle out a
little bit more and then he's going to
calm down you tried to pull in the Pew
but it would cut right through him and
said oh break this silk thread would cut
the people that pupil would break before
the thread way down here he just shed
that's that's the caterpillar skin this
is totally backwards from what I thought
I thought that I thought that the
caterpillar made this pupa and then
crawled inside and then turned into a
butterfly but you're telling me he just
sits there and grunts and turns into a
pupa that's right after he's finished
there he's going to start hardening he
will lighten up to a nice light white
background because he's on a white
background so he'll end up with a color
similar to this guy right here so you're
saying that they change colors based on
where the pupa is in the background of
where the pupa spends his cocoon
so that means think about that that
means that this this when he was a
caterpillar he had to look at the color
he was on and remember it and then
somehow I don't know how I don't think
anybody does somehow he figures out what
color he needs to be you like a
chameleon he matches he matches it the
best he can to that background color so
can you show us some different color
ones
absolutely usually get anywhere from
about about forty to sixty out of the
sleeve and not most of these guys here
will actually be going to the Bronx Zoo
really yep from Alabama to the Bronx a
pretty neat that's pretty cool
and of course I always keep a few that I
save out for my own breeding stock so do
you get to see them come out like the
emergence out of the cocoon or the pupa
excuse me
yep sure do and in fact why don't you
take a few of these and we'll see if you
can catch them on camera coming out of
the cocoon and drying their wings oh I
bet it's your descent feels like a trick
is it hard to do oh I know you'll be
right yeah I thank you wings so I turned
this surprised me at all
okay so we crawled from the bottom to
top just now I've been waiting for weeks
for this to happen all right so this is
one of the most amazing parts of the
process this butterfly which is a
totally different looking creature than
what went into this pupa just came out
of it now what I think is cool is that
those wings were folded up in such an
efficient way that they were crammed
into this thing that's amazing so when
he comes out those wings are obviously
kind of new so they're wet and floppy so
they have no real structural integrity
so he can't use them so he's pretty
vulnerable for the first little bit he
comes up to the top here and he dangles
his wings down he's got fluid in his
abdomen and he starts pumping it into
those veins on his wing so he can
inflate it that it's actually called
inflation oh you see it that's excess
fluid that he had in his body that he
was getting rid of because he's already
inflated his wings I can't believe I
just called that I just induced it
really anyway he just ejected that
meconium because it was no longer needed
for his wings because they are already
inflated so it looks like he's got one
more fold in his wing and he's trying to
straighten out he's almost there but not
quite where you going buddy
oh he just flew that was the first
moment that got flew so his wings were
ready okay so it turned out that
butterfly emerges is a little too
difficult for me so I'm bringing it back
to John John's gonna borrow the camera
for a week or so and he's gonna see if
he can catch it for you gonna catch
butterfly emerges we're gonna try all
right next thing you're gonna see is
John with the camera my timing was off
all right we'll see what we can do all
right these are the guys that I think
are gonna be hatching over the next day
or two and down here I have my trusty
old carrying case and I'll actually be
hanging the the pupa from up on the roof
there now everything goes well the next
thing you should be watching is a
butterfly as it hatches from its
chrysalis
you
oh no a little bit in a hurry there one
two three go
how's that okay so I mentioned earlier
in the show I was going to show you
what's in this envelope
I was hand-delivered this at work and
it's called a notice of decision to
furlough which means basically I no
longer get paid on Fridays it's a pretty
big deal as a dad of three so there's a
way you can help me out of the situation
I'm very thankful that audible.com has
decided to use smarter every day to
advertise you know I don't run
advertisements on smarter every day this
is a pretty big deal during this time
please consider going to audible.com
slash smarter and clicking on the free
trial that would help me a lot their
audiobooks you can listen to tons of
different types but I'm gonna let her
tell you what her favorite is I like
this isn't my favorite but it's called
the Dawn Treader I like it very much
because they go on adventures and like
they are actually in the picture frame
and I tried to get too thin as oil go
and we're to the end of the world there
but hey I'll have known who wrote it by
tease books until lose in it the Ellen
Reepicheep flips a packet found a
picture there's that Reepicheep if you
look at some news videos you can see
well Reepicheep right here okay you all
swap back yes
swap I used audible before they asked me
to advertise clearly now's a good time
for me you're smart people you know
what's up here anyway I'm Destin you're
getting smarter every day audible.com
slash smarter free trial they helps me
out have a good one who planted these
flowers I did yeah when I my favorite
what color is it this little pink one
that's your favorite huh not wrong I
didn't know flowers had rules it's not
attached Oh
so the the base of the bloom a strange
want to do that your favorite place to
ever go d um I like Peru a lot maybe